Welcome to the breakdown where we breakdown
all the messed up shit!!
Sorry for no videos last week, I was just
super busy with school but if you're from
the future like this purple haired king then
just ignore what I just said.
So today we are recapping the movie Hereditary,
a supernatural horror film directed by Ari
Aster I'm sure I said it wrong, but this guy
also directed the disturbing short film The
Strange Thing About the Johnsons which you
can find on YouTube!
Hereditary stars Toni Collete as Annie Graham
who just got done burying her mother Ellen,
but Ellen seems to have kept a lot of private
information about herself from Annie, something
that we will uncover later in this video!
I'll happily say that this video is not catered
towards people that have already seen the
movie and are looking for a validated video
to share opinions on what it really means
or whatever!
This is just a simple recap from a guy who
dislikes theories and all that!
If you are looking for an analysis feel free
to check out Foundflix's video on it, but
regardless if you want to see what happens,
including all the messed up parts, stay tuned
for the breakdown!
The movie starts off with a message telling
us that Ellen Leigh passed away a month before
may when I did Felidae!
She's the momma of Annie Graham, a woman we
will see later!
First, take a look at this treehouse guys!
Remember it because I'm sure it has some significance
later on!
We then pan away from that house in the trees
to the doll houses sitting in Annie's art
room!
We zoom back into the story through a small
house where a Annie's husband Steve comes
in to wake up their son Peter for his grandmother's
funeral!
Steve asks where his sister slept last night,
who apparently likes to sleep outside in this
cold treehouse.
Before we cut to the sister, we see a waiting
Annie in the car!
Well here is Charlie who gets roasted by dad
for sleeping in this cold ass treehouse, but
she doesn't give two fucks!
Well then, we cut to the funeral of this pretty
old lady, and Annie gives a eulogy which basically
expresses their difficult relationship with
each other, not all moms and daughters get
along!
While looking at grandma's body, Charlie rips
out a big ass Hershey bad, but mommy and daddy
want to make sure she doesn't swallow any
nuts!
Looks like someone has a peanut allergy!
After the funeral, Annie reveals something
feels weird which is basically she doesn't
feel sad about the death of her momma!
Later that night Anne then goes to speak to
Charlie who drew pics of Granny!
Yo Charlie are you good?
Annie says that Charlie was Granny's favorite
and Charlie says that Granny wanted her to
be a boy!
I bet we will find out why later.
The thing that's really on Charlies mind is
who will take care of her, even when Anne
her own mother dies!
While comforting her daughter, Annie notices
the word Satony on the wallpaper, which is
some kind of magical incantation but we don't
give a fuck about that right now!
Later Annie notices a box saying moms thongs,
eww who wants to look at that!?
Oh excuse me it says things, which inside
shows some old family pics and some book called
Notes on Spiritu..
damn bitch let me see!
Okay this notes on spiritualism basically
holds this note from Annie's mom saying sorry
for being stubbornly private, but whatever
I'm dead now so yeah.
This note was too weird for Anne who throws
it back like a fat ass!
While leaving, Annie is shocked to see a scary
ass apparition of her mother who disappears
once them lights turn on.
Her curiosity points her to one of her dollhouses
showing that not only was grandma really all
up in her daughters childcare, but she was
breastfeeding Charlie too!
Speaking of Charlie, we then see her at school
playing with her pill bottle toy when she
should be testing!
After getting grilled nicely by her teacher,
a damn bird crashes into the window, scaring
everybody including me except for Charlie,
who seems to turn her interest into some scissors!
Then we see Peter in class who does what every
single boy does in a class full of fine ass
girls.
Then Peter gets a text from Smokey in the
back who wants to smoke big fat doinks after
class.
This gets him caught by the teacher and my
guy gets caught lacking on a question, but
I'm sure getting homegirl attention was worth
it for.
Remember that dead bird, cuz Charlie was the
only one that did.
She is also the only one I know that would
use scissors to decapitate a bird and then
pocket the head.
Okay Charlie whatever floats your boat, but
looks like you got a stalker that looks just
like grandmama that died!
Looks like Annie aint the only one seeing
apparitions!
Later, pops here gets a call from the funeral
home telling him that the entire grave of
grandma has been desecrated, but he makes
sure not to tell Annie that, so without worry,
Annie says she is finna go watch a movie!
Well what a funny looking movie theatre you're
going too Annie!
Really, Annie is visiting a support group
for people who lost loved ones.
Annie shares many of her experiences and fatal
thoughts about her mother, including how manipulative
she was.
One simple think to take from this scene is
things was never good for Annie and mommy,
but she still feels some kind of guilt.
Back home, we see Peter who gets a text from
his friend telling him "Holy shit, huge party
at Aaron's house, bring your dick!"
Who the fuck says that shit my guy!
Meanwhile it seems someone is watching him
from the treehouse, watching some unknown
plans roll into motion.
The next day, we see Charlie working on her
own little arts and crafts when her attention
is gained and called elsewhere.
Peter then visits his momma to ask if he can
use one of the cars for a "School Barbacue
Thing".
She says well you better bring your sister,
who meanwhile I walking bare foot to an apparition
of her grandmother in front of a blaze.
What do you got to say about that Charlie?
" Pop Sound " Okay Charlie, well anyway she
does this normally just to let you know that
she is a special unique person.
Annie drags Good Luck Charlie back in so she
can go to that party with Peter, who definitely
aint feeling having his sister along with
her annoying popping and level 8 cock blocking
power.
One highlight of this scene is we pause on
a pole with a weird symbol on it.
Hmm I wonder who that belongs too..
Well here is the lit party, where lots of
fresh game is available for our fisherman
Peter, but we also see a girl cut up some
peanuts that will be used in a chocolate cake.
Peter locks on to his crush, but this equals
an awkward conversation since Peter has no
sauce.
He finally succeeds in impressing her when
he offers to smoke up some weed with her,
and David gets Charlie...who the fuck is David?
Excuse me Peter influences his leechy sister
to stay behind so she can get a piece of that
chocolate cake!
Unknowingly, she eats the cake which contained
those nuts which she is allergic to.
Its weird because she seems to know it had
nuts in it, but finally tells her brother
its hard for her to breath after a bit of
him smoking big doinks and all that.
Peter grabs his sister and drives as fast
as he can to get her some help!
In the back she struggles to breathe, and
I'm guessing in a need to get air she sticks
her head ouf of the window, but a carcass
in the road makes Peter swerve, and Charlie
is decapitated by that pole we saw earlier.
Peter stops the car and this is probably the
epitome of a mindfuck seeing that your sister
just brutally died in a freak accident, plus
the sight of the head in the mirror makes
things worse.
Peter slowly lets off the breaks for a while,
and drives home disturbed as hell but instead
of telling everybody what happened he goes
to bed.
Sleep is the last thing that he got though,
and we soon hear the cries of Annie showing
she knows what happened.
Then we see the actual decapitated head which
honestly is something that makes you turn
away a bit, I mean it looks real plus it's
a child's head.
The loud cries of Annie just make everything
sadder and reminds me of a similar scene in
Funny Games.
Different from her mother's funereal, Annie
can't keep her composure at the burial of
her daughter.
In the middle of grief, here is another wall
message in Charlie's room saying Zazas which
is a word used by a British occultist named
Aleister Crowley whenever he wanted to summon
some demons!
The grief of losing a sister is very strong,
as Peter cant forget the nature of his sister's
death.
Weirdly though, while smoking with his clique
he starts to suffer some weird reaction similar
to his sister's allergy reaction and cries
for his friends to hold his hand!
Later we see Annie go to the support group
place again but changes her mind real quick.
Before she leaves though she is stopped by
a woman named Joan who becomes a guiding voice
for Annie who herself lost both her son and
grandson in a drowning accident.
She offers her number and address to talk
if Annie ever wants to.
Later though Annie does take up Joan's offer
and goes to her residence, noticing a welcome
mat that looks like something her mom used
to make, maybe Joan and Ellen knew each other.
Well anyway, Annie painfully explains the
nature of the funeral, and also shares a story
about her sleep walking and almost lighting
her whole family on fire, we will see that
nightmare later though.
This nightmare seems to be a result from disconnect
between Peter and his mother Annie, which
is at its strongest after Charlie's death.
At dinner at home, its super awkward and the
negative tensions between Peter and Annie
result in a strong vocal argument that concludes
with Annie completely blaming her son for
what happened to Charlie.
Before things get any more heated, Steve stops
the argument.
Another day, Anne leaves the arts and crafts
store and sees Joan on the way out, who is
ecstatic after visiting a spiritual medium.
Long story short, I talked to my dead son
and grandsons, let me show you!
At Joan's house, she starts a seance which
contacts the spirit of her grandson who completely
shocks Annie by moving glasses and writing
on chalk boards and shit.
This causes Annie to freak out and want to
leave, but Joan makes sure to show her how
to call for Charlie's spirit herself!
Later that night, Annie is woken up from ants
crawling all over her pillow and around the
room.
She follows a huge trail of ants coming from
Peter's room.
Annie walks in disgusted, seeing hundreds
of ants crawl all over Peter and is repulsed
to see them crawling out of his mouth.
It turns out she was just sleep walking though,
and oddly asks if Charlie is here.
She even says I never wanted to be your mother
on accident.
Apparently, grandma forced Anne to have a
baby and even tried having a miscarriage to
get rid of Peter.
Peter cries learning this from mom, but we
then see he is doused in paint thinner and
so is mom, who then blows up in flames like
that nightmare described in Joan''s house
earlier.
Gladly though that was a dream too.
Annie gets up and wakes up Peter, apologizing
for all the harsh words and recruits him and
Steve to do that seance.
They start it up, and Annie asks Charlie to
move that glass which she does!
Then Charlie starts getting a little out of
control, breaking glass and shooting fire,
which is really her possessing Annie who eerily
growls before speaking in Charlie's voice
in a scared manner.
Steve gets Charlie to leave by dumping water
on Annie, but it also seems Steve wants to
take his son and get away from his wife.
Then we see another wall message saying Liftoach
Pandemonium, which basically means open up
hell to bring the demon.
Then we see Peter going to school, but his
attention is taken by this energy wave possibly
created by Charlie.
He then looks in the mirror seeing himself
smiling, but becomes the class dummy in the
progress.
Even at night, Peter is creeped out from apparitions
of Charlie and is chocked out from random
arms, so in order to stop this malevolent
spirit, Annie takes Charlies notebook and
throws it in the fireplace.
The only issue is that as long as that notebook
is on fire, so is Annie who is forced to save
to notebook to save herself!
To get help on whats going on, Annie visits
Joan's place but Joan seems to be gone, well
after she did some weird cult like shit that
definitely relates Joan to her grandma, Charlie
and Peter.
Speaking of Peter, he watches as Joan screams
nonsense at him from across the street.
Back at home Annie finds a book with the same
symbol that was on that pole we saw that decapitated
Charlie.
In the book, it describes a demon called King
Paimon, who by this text is a passive demon
that uses bodies as hosts through rituals
ordained by some cult that Ellen and Joan
are apart of.
Aparently when Paimon is in a female, he becomes
livid and vengeful but it wants a male host
ideally.
This must mean that Charlie was the first
host who herself wasnt very happy.
Charlie what did grandma Ellen say to you
one day?
"Charlie: She wanted me to be a boy" exactly
Charlie, she wanted you to be a boy to please
King Paimon!
Annie then goes to the fly infested Attic,
seeing the decapitated body of her mother
and the symbol of the cult that she was the
leader of.
That isn't the only weird thing going on,
because at school, Peter is tormented by the
sounds of Charlie's or rather Paimon's popping
sound, and his body starts to entirely contort
into something nasty.
Peter then horrifies his classmates by hitting
his face on the desk, breaking his nose and
screaming in terror!
Steve brings Peter home and Anne tries to
convince him that the body of her mother is
up in the attic and you better check it out.
A fragile Annie explains how a cult is the
reason why everything is happening, and the
only way to stop this curse and save their
son from Paimon is to destroy Charlie' drawing
book!
Annie gears up to sacrifice herself to stop
this supposed curse and gives Steve the book
to destroy it, but he turns out believing
his wife is a lunatic, so instead she grabs
and throws away the book but this immolates
Steve instead!
Annie watches in horror, but the energy of
Paimon seems to take control of her real quick!
Later Peter wakes up, but a ghostly Annie
flies behind him.
Peter walks down the stairs finding the burnt
crispy body of his father, and even sees a
nude ass man who actually is a cult member.
Annie then comes out from the ceiling and
runs after Peter, but he locks himself away
in the attic as a demonized Annie knocks on
the door!
Once she stops, Peter finds all the nasty
stuff around the room, but he sees above him
that Annie is decapitating herself with some
piano wire and damn she really is getting
into it too!
Then suddenly, two saggy titty women and a
old man causes him to jump out of the window
and we head Annie's head drop to the floor.
We see Paimon's energy circle over Peter and
seemingly this is Paimon in Peter's body now.
Peter gets up to follow his mother's dead
levitating corpse, and even does that pop
noise that Charlie used to do, indicating
that the popping Charlie did was Paimon's
popping!
Peter walks in as nude ass cult member watch.
He climbs up to see he is being honored and
we even see a statue with Charlie's head on
it being honored by the decapitated corpses
of Annie and her mom.
The followers then transfer power from the
previous host of Charlie to Peter, and the
movie ends as we see that Peter is now the
host of a demon, after being wearied down
from the death of his whole family!
Now this movie deserve an applause because
it was a greatly directed horror film and
still had plenty of shocking scenes like the
death of Charlie and the influence of King
Paimon.
Now that we seen an entire family lose its
will, lets talk about the most disturbed moment
and most enjoyed moment in that Spooky Stuff!
So lets get right into it, the most disturbed
moment is for me at least the death of Charlie!
It's crazy how the cult initiated every sequence
just for the giving of power to Peter.
Like every single thing that happened seemed
to be the plan of the cult!
The most enjoyed moment Id say is the doggie
in the movie!
Oh wait did I even mention the dog in this
video?
Nvm It was the acting I enjoyed, especially
of Annie.
She probably pured her heart out for this
movie!
And that's it, remember this isn't like some
theory video or what it really means behind
the scenes it literally just a simple recap
so you can see what happens in your convenience.
If you're new, consider subscribing to see
more recaps of Disturbing Cinema, and check
out some similar films I got lined up for
you right here!
Oh yeah and scratch one of them, here check
out FoundFlix's video that basically explains
what happens I mean he is like one of the
best YouTubers to actually explain a movie!
Thanks for watching, Spooky OUT!